---
layout: docs
title: Command-line interface
nav-index: 1
---

Strymon provides a command-line interface to build and run Timely dataflow
programs on a running Strymon cluster.

## The `strymon` utility

The `strymon` command-line utility is part of the Strymon run-time. It can be
invoked either by using the binary generated by building the `strymon_runtime`
crate, or by using the wrapper script provided in `./bin/strymon`.

    Strymon 0.1
    Systems Group, ETH Zürich

    USAGE:
        strymon [OPTIONS] <SUBCOMMAND>

    FLAGS:
        -h, --help       Prints help information
        -V, --version    Prints version information

    OPTIONS:
        -l, --log-level <RUST_LOG>    Set level and filters for logging

    SUBCOMMANDS:
        help      Prints this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
        status    Prints status information about a running Strymon instance
        submit    Submit a new Strymon application

All subcommands of the Strymon command-line utility can print additional
debugging output by setting the log level to `info` or `debug`. The syntax
for the value passed to the `--log-level` flag follows the same rules as
the `RUST_LOG` environment variables of `env_logger` documented
[here](https://docs.rs/env_logger/0.4.3/env_logger/#enabling-logging).

### `strymon status`

    strymon status
    Prints status information about a running Strymon instance

    USAGE:
        strymon status [OPTIONS]

    FLAGS:
        -h, --help       Prints help information
        -V, --version    Prints version information

    OPTIONS:
        -c, --coordinator <ADDR>    Address of the coordinator

The status subcommand connects to the specified coordinator
(default: `localhost:9189`) and prints the status information extracted from
the catalog.

### `strymon submit`

    strymon-submit
    Submit a new Strymon application

    USAGE:
        strymon submit [OPTIONS] <path|--binary-path <PATH>> [-- <args>...]

    OPTIONS:
            --features <FEATURES>...
                Comma-separated list of features to activate

            --all-features                     Build all available features
            --no-default-features
                Do not build the `default` feature

            --bin <NAME>
                Build and submit only the specified binary

            --example <NAME>
                Build and submit only the specified example

            --debug
                Build in debug mode instead of release mode

        -e, --external-hostname <HOST>
                Externally reachable hostname of the spawned coordinator

        -c, --coordinator <ADDR>               Address of the coordinator
            --description <DESC>
                Human-readable description of the submitted job

            --workers <NUM>                    Number of workers per machine
            --placement-strategy <STRATEGY>
                Job placement strategy [values: pinned, random]

            --pinned-id <ID>...
                Comma-separated list of executor ids for the `pinned`
                placement strategy
            --pinned-host <HOST>...
                Comma-separated list of executor host names for the `pinned`
                placement strategy
            --num-executors <NUM>
                Number of executors for the `random` placement strategy

            --no-upload
                Let the executors read the binary from their local filesystem

            --binary-path <PATH>
                Submit a prebuilt binary (skips invoking `cargo build`)

        -h, --help                             Prints help information
        -V, --version                          Prints version information

    ARGS:
        <path>       Path to the Cargo project directory
        <args>...    Arguments passed to the the spawned binary


Strymon submit is a rather large subcommand which performs following tasks:

  1. Builds a Strymon job as a Rust Cargo project in `<path>` and extracts
     the binary crate artifact from the build.
  2. Uploads and runs the binary on the Strymon cluster, using the placement
     configuration specified in the options.

#### Building the project

This subcommand invokes `cargo build` on the specified project path. For this
reason, it mimics a subset of the arguments accepted by `cargo build`. Notably
feature selection for conditional compilation with the `--features`,
`--all-features`, `--no-default-features` options.

By default, jobs are built with optimizations. To submit debug builds, use the
`--debug` flag.

The built project has only a one binary target, it will be chosen for submission.
If there are multiple binary targets, please specify one using either the `--bin`
or `--example` option.

Please refer to the [Cargo documentation](http://doc.crates.io/guide.html) for
a more detailed description of the option mentioned in this section.

> *Note:* If you would like to skip the build step, specify the pre-built
> binary using the `--binary-path` option.

#### Job placement configuration

The built binary is submitted Strymon coordinator specified in the `--coordinator`
otpion (default: `localhost:9189`).

By default, the submitted binary is uploaded using a randomly selected TCP port.
For this reason, the external hostname of the local machine must be known.
Either using the `--external-hostname` option, or by setting the
TIMELY_SYSTEM_HOSTNAME environment variable. This functionality can be disabled
by using the `--no-upload` option.

The `--placement-strategy` argument is used to specify to which machines the
submitted binary is spawned on. By default, jobs will be placed on a single
randomly selected executor. This is equivalent to `--placement-strategy random
--num-executors 1`. To pin a job to a certain set of executors, use
`--placement-strategy pinned` together with either `--pinned-id 0,1,2` to select
executors based on their executor id, or use `--pinned-host host1,host2,host3`
to specify them by hostname.

The number of worker threads per executors (default: `1`) can set using the
`--workers` option. The optional job name is given through the `--description`
option.


## Cluster management scripts

We additionally provide shell scripts for starting and stopping the components
of a Strymon cluster.

    Usage: ./bin/start-strymon.sh [-c <HOSTNAME:PORT>] [-e <HOSTFILE>]
                                  [-l <LOGDIR>]

        -c <HOSTNAME:PORT>   Address of the coordinator to be spawned
        -e <HOSTFILE>        Executor hosts file
        -l <LOGDIR>          Working directory for log and pid files

#### `./bin/start-strymon.sh`

Starts a coordinator instance on the host and port specified by the `-c` flag
(default: `localhost:9189`) and then starts a series of executors, which can be
specified in a host file (default: `conf/executors`).

Note that this script assumes that `LOGDIR` is shared among all machines
participating in the cluster. You can inspect the output of the executors (and
consequentially the jobs spawned by it) by reading the log files in
`logs/executor_$hostname.log`.

#### `./bin/stop-strymon.sh`

Stops the instances spawned by `start-strymon.sh`. Make sure to pass the same
coordinator and executor instances used for starting the cluster.

> **Note**: Support for launching the coordinator or executors on remote machines
> with these scripts is currently still experimental. The script does currently
> not support starting multiple executors on the same machine.

> **Note**: There is a known bug in which submitted jobs keep running even after
> the cluster has been stopped. To stop the submitted jobs manually, terminate
> them using `pkill -f timely_query`.
